I wanna talk about one more module and
then we are going to call it a day.
We're actually running
out of film in the back.
They only bought so many tapes,
maybe I should not talk so
much, or maybe talk really fast.
All right, so I wanna take a moment and
I wanna talk about unit testing.
And I wanna talk about conceptually how we
should think about unit testing, and
then just show a few patterns
that when I write test,
I just see it over and over and over.
As well as, I believe the standalone
API also makes this a lot easier.
So in Angular,
my experience is that I spend,
probably 90% of my time just getting
the unit under test to initialize.
Because, essentially,
every dependency that exists,
you have to account for that.
And in some cases, when you have very
large components with components,
sometimes I just end up just
doing process of elimination,
cuz you don't need to inject everything,
just enough to satisfy the dependency.
So literally,
I'm looking at 20 dependencies.
I'm just adding them in one by one,
until it renders.
So one thing I would say is
that keep your components,
your services, everything,
fine grain, single purpose.
And if you find that
you're having to import,
Four or five, six modules,
ask yourself why that's necessary.
And you probably have a component
that is too coarse-grained.
Or you're doing something
that's too coarse-grained.
A really, really great book,
probably one of my favorite
programming books is
Clean Code by Robert C Martin.
And I've read it probably three or
four times, and
I actually am fortunate
enough to have a signed copy.
And if my house ever caught on fire and
my kids were safe,
I would run in,
grab that copy of that book and
my Fender Rhodes keyboard,
and I'd be out of there,
and my golf clubs, and
my shoes, and my skateboard.
Just kidding,
I've grabbed three skateboards.
All right, so one of the things that,
when you read Clean Code,
what's interesting
to me is that in hindsight,
it's so obvious.
What uncle Bob is talking
about is common sense.
I think it's really about portion control.
If I could describe
Clean Code in the simplest
possible terms,
it's about portion control.
Is that, do not do too much,
do just enough.
And if you're doing too much,
you need to break it up.
You need to refactor.
And I've talked about this
before in other workshops, but
what's interesting to me
even in an enterprise
products workshop context,
to this day 85%,
if not more of the code that I see,
comes down to three basic errors.
Every single time, show me a code base and
there's three things that are happening.
One, hidden state, nested logic,
and SRP violations,
single responsibility
principle violations.
And every single one of those are,
I think one of the easiest
things to fix in code and
it creates so much pain and
suffering and misery,
and it just ushers in the apocalypse
in your organization.
And it's like the end of time,
and it seems so
innocent at first, but
what happens is things start
to get coupled in a way
that you can't uncouple it.
And then you leave with your
boss to go to some other company
because you wanna create a better and
cooler culture over there,
and I don't think he's taken the bait.
>> [LAUGH]
>> [LAUGH] Michaela Maroney is not amused.
But it's a slippery slope and
it creates entropy and
rot in the code, and it's super simple.
Is, when I describe in the state
nested logic SRP violations,
it's things that are tightly
coupled in the wrong way,
is that you have hidden state
coupled into a function,
nested logic, SRP violations.
And when something is word,
it should be the opposite is the solution
in that extract, promote, move it out.
So if you have, for instance,
hidden state in a function where
you're mutating state within a function,
and so you have the state
mutation inside of a function, well,
how do you test that function?
You can't,
because you have no way of knowing what
the end result of that function is gonna
be without knowing things that
are happening outside of the function.
Super easy to solve, you take the hidden
state, you pass it in as a parameter.
Extract the parameter,
that's the logic, extract a function.
So if you have an if else statement or
a switch statement and you got these
complicated, there's business logic
in there, how do you test that?
How do you test that and
step over the other things?
Suddenly, you got this complicated
setup to just get into that one thing.
Well, you just extract it to a method.
It's that simple.
If you have a function that's doing
two things or more, what do you do?
Extract a method, and so the,
I think one of the first principles or
core principles of
programming is to commit.
If you want to write good tests,
write good code.
And its always funny to me
when somebody comes to me and
says, hey, we wanna hire you to come and
fix the test.
And you're like, fix the test?
[LAUGH] I can't fix the test
without fixing your code,
which means that I probably
have to fix your culture.
Which means then we probably
have to fix your organization.
That's the canary in the coal mine.
So with that said, I want to just show
a few patterns in the sample app.
All right, git push.
I'm guessing here.
This feels like the right thing.
And P, [LAUGH] nice try, Louis.
All right, that's it, we did it.
Everybody, go home,
have a good weekend, awesome.
That, for a second, I almost believed it.
Let's just step through the components and
kinda work through just a few things.
The biggest thing, as I said,
that when you are writing tests for
Angular, I think the majority
of your time is going
to revolve around satisfying
the dependencies.
This is why when you have fine-grained
code with minimal dependencies,
it's so much easier to set up the context
for that unit under test to operate.
So the question is then,
if you have a dependency,
what can you do to solve
that dependency?
If you have a dependency, what do you do?
Well, there's a few things, so,
One is you can, and
if I look up, Here,
[SOUND] you can use mocks or stubs.
And so when I say mock or stub,
and if anybody wants to offer
the version of what they think is
that when I think of a mock and
a stub, a stub is the bare
minimum to satisfy the API, and
a mock actually has some basic
functionality kind of baked into it.
So a mock actually can
exhibit some behavior.
Stub is just a stubby little object.
When you are writing your test,
that's the first thing that
you have to ask yourself.
And I'm looking to see if I'm trying
to find a good example of, I would wager
either in one of these state ones, or,
Perfect, awesome, so
dependency injection for the win,
we are setting up the challengesFacade.
And so what we're able to do is
provide the action subject and
use this mock action subject in its place.
So this is really, really nice when
it's like, you have this dependency,
I can give it to you, we can call it that,
but it's really something else.
And the action subject here,
Is, we're actually using, I think,
the full one if I'm not mistaken.
So what you have as well,
speaking of mocks,
is that NGRX provides some of this for
you.
I will say this,
if you want, I think some of
the best API documentation for
a library is in the test.
If you're confused at how something works,
go look at the test.
And it's very, very precise,
highly concentrated examples of how
do you interact with this thing.
Well, because it's a unit under test,
and you can see it.
So now, when we are creating this,
we're testing the challengesFacade,
we have,
A few dependencies, and what's interesting
is that we're using the inject or
to pull in the store.
So this is coming off the core.
And so typically, I look for
hard dependencies.
And then I create a reference
to the unit in our test.
So we're testing the challengesFacade.
So I create a placeholder for
an instance of that, and
then a placeholder for the things
that we're directly injecting in.
And then in the testing module,
then we use providers, crying out loud.
This VS code is all over the place,
to override and wire this up.
So here, provide mock store.
So it's like the store, but it's not
action subject, mock action subject.
And then we're able to
inject these instances,
these units under test,
into the test module or the testbed, so
the testbed actually wraps the module.
So that's the first piece,
is understanding how to
satisfy dependency injection.
If you can figure that out, or better yet,
if you can figure out how to avoid
creating dependencies, high five.
Then satisfying them is pretty
easy using the provide,
use value, use class, use object syntax.